# An Analysis of Kickstarter Campaigns
## Overview of Project
Performing analysis on Kickstarter data to uncover trends 
### Purpose
The purpose of this analysis was to help Louise determine if there are any specific factors that make a fundraising campaign more successful and if there are, how can Louise implement these factors to make her campaign as successful.
## Analysis and Challenges

### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
I performed my analysis by creating a Pivot Table with the Kickstarter Data with added columns of Data Created Conversion and Data Ended Conversion. In the Pivot Table I filtered the chart by Category and Years while also placing Outcomes in columns, Data Created Conversion in rows, and Outcomes which turned to Count of Outcomes in values. After creating the Pivot table, I filtered the table by only theater, as this is the main category Louise would like to create a fundraising campaign from. To further visualize the data, I created a line chart with markers. 
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Goals
I performed this analysis by creating a new sheet called "Outcomes Based on Goals". On this sheet we were required to add the a list of headers: Goal, Number Successful, Number Canceled, Total Projects, Percentage Successful, Percentage Failed, and Percentage Canceled. For the Goal column, we were asked to type in the given dollar-amount ranges that the projects can be group based on their goal amount. For the Number Successful, Number Failed, and Number Canceled columns we were asked to use the COUNTIFS function on Excel to determine each number. For each column I filtered the equation based on which exact filters we needed for example "successful", "failed", or "canceled". After I applied the specific filtered formula to each column, I went back into every cell of that column to edit the goal amount range which produced the correct answer for each cell. For the Total Projects column, I was able to determine the answer of each cell by using the SUM() function on Excel. For the Percentage Successful, Percentage Failed, and Percentage Canceled columns, I was able to determine the answer by looking up how to calculate percentages in Excel on Google. I learned that the simplest way to calculate the percentages is by using the Division function on Excel (ex: =B2/E2). Once I had all my percentages, I decreased the decimal spot by 2 places in order to have the percentage as a whole number with no decimals. To further visualize my data, I created a line chart. The line chart was created by selecting columns A, F, G, and H and then choosing the line chart on Excel. 
### Challenges and Difficulties Encountered
For the Outcomes Based on Launch Data Analysis, the main challenge I encountered while trying to perform this analysis was that earlier in the module we were required to split the Category and Subcategory column on the Kickstarter sheet and relabel the columns however, I forgot to rename one of the columns. I had renamed the original Category and Subcategory column as "Subcategory" rather than "Parent Category" and did not name the new created column when it should've been named "Subcategory". By mislabeling the columns, I was not able to filter the chart by theaters which led my whole graph to be wrong. I was able to overcome this challenge by working with a learning assistant through Slack BCS. I was able to share my screen with the learning assistant via Zoom and he shortly realized that I was getting the correct information in my pivot table due to the mislabeling of the charts. On the Kickstarter sheet, the LA had me rename my column N as "Parent Category", column Q as "Category", and column R as "Subcategory". This is the reason why my pivot table is filtered by "Category", rather than "Parent Category"! I have the same required information, however my headings were just sightly incorrect. For the Outcomes Based on Goals Analysis, the main challenge I encountered while trying to perform this analysis was that I accidentally forgot to add "15000 to 19999" in the Goal column. After using the COUNTIFS formula for the Number Successful column, I wanted to make sure that I was using the correct formula leading me to reach out to a couple of my group members in a study group via Slack. I sent a screenshot of the sheet I was working on and one of my group members noticed that I had accidentally forgot to include one of the goal ranges in Column A which is why a couple of numbers towards the bottom of my column were off! After my group member caught the mistake I made, I was able to go back and properly calculate each number required.
## Results

- What are two conclusions you can draw about the Outcomes based on Launch Date?
One conclusion that I can draw from the Outcomes based on Launch Date is that the month of May had the highest number of successful theater fundraising campaigns compared to any other month. Another conclusion that can be drawn from the data is that during the summer (months of June and July) the number of successful theater fundraising campaigns tend to be the highest concluding that if Louise wants to have a successful campaign, it would be best that she has the campaign run during the months of either May, June, or July. 
- What can you conclude about the Outcomes based on Goals?
From the Outcomes based on Goals, I can conclude that the lower the fundraising goal is for the campaign, the more successful the campaign has a chance of turning out.
- What are some limitations of this dataset?
One limitation that I felt was in this dataset is that there is a lot of unnecessary data included in the original downloaded Excel file on the Kickstarter sheet. In order to help Louise, we had to filter through the data a bunch of times just to look for data that was specific to the theater category. If the original dataset were just to include information specific to theater, finding the solution to Lousie's problem would have been much easier. Also, the columns of "Staff Pick" and "Spotlight" seemed unnecessary to me making the Excel sheet more crowded than it needed to be. 
- What are some other possible tables and/or graphs that we could create?
One table that we could create that could further help Louise would be creating a table for Outcomes Based on Backers by filtering by Subcategories. This way Louise could determine the amount of backers she might receive for her specific fundraising campaign.
